= stubble

* http://github.com/dchelimsky/stubble

== DESCRIPTION:

Shave a few lines, but leave a little stubble. Stubble makes stubbing ORM
models in rspec controller specs (or rails functional tests) just a little bit
easier.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Simple means of stubbing multiple ActiveRecord class and instance methods
* Currently unreleased and somewhat experimental
  * API and underlying functionality are subject to change
    * Especially while it's not yet released
* Only works with RSpec's HEAD (see http://github.com/dchelimsky/rspec)
  * I'll release 0.0.1 of stubble after the rspec-1.2.7 release
* Works with RSpec or Test::Unit and multiple mock frameworks:
  * RSpec's mocking framework (RSpec only)
  * flexmock
  * mocha
  * rr
  
== SYNOPSIS:

describe ThingsController do
  context "PUT with valid attributes"
    it "redirects to the things index" do
      stubbing(Thing) do
        put :update
        response.should redirect_to(things_path)
      end
    end
  end
end

== CONFIGURATION:

=== RSpec

in spec_helper:

  require 'stubble'
  Stubble.configure {|c| c.stub_with(:rspec)}
  Spec::Runner.configure {|c| c.include(Stubble)}
  
If you want to use any other mock framework (:mocha, :flexmock or :rr - example below with :rr):

  require 'stubble'
  Stubble.configure {|c| c.stub_with(:rr)}
  Spec::Runner.configure do |c|
    c.include(Stubble)
    c.mock_with(:rr)
  end
  
=== Test::Unit

in test_helper.rb

  require 'stubble'
  Stubble.configure {|c| c.stub_with(:mocha)}

  class ActiveSupport::TestCase
    include Stubble
  end

Same setup for :flexmock and :rr. Does not currently work with rspec's mock framework

== USAGE:

By default, stubbled model classes are happy. They can be found, created, and
saved in all number of ways without complaint.

  stubbing(Thing) do |thing|
    ...
  end
  
... stubs all the following:

  Thing.new                 => thing
  Thing.find(id)            => thing
  Thing.find(:first)        => thing
  Thing.find(:first, *args) => thing
  Thing.create              => thing
  Thing.create!             => thing

  Thing.all                 => [thing]
  Thing.all(*args)          => [thing]
  Thing.find(:all)          => [thing]
  Thing.find(:all, *args)   => [thing]
  
The instance of Thing is set up with the following stubs:

  thing.valid?             => true
  thing.save               => true
  thing.save!              => true
  thing.update_attribute   => true
  thing.update_attributes  => true
  thing.update_attributes! => true
  
You can also tell stubble to create an invalid stub, like so:

  stubbing(Thing, :as => :invalid) do |thing|
    ...
  end
  
This will respond to various finders, creators just like the default, with the exception
of create!

  Thing.create! => raise ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid
  
The instance returned is stubbed as follows:

  thing.valid?             => false
  thing.save               => false
  thing.save!              => raise ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid
  thing.update_attribute   => false
  thing.update_attributes  => false
  thing.update_attributes! => raise ActiveRecord::RecordInvalid

=== Examples

==== GET requests

The following examples will both pass if the controller's index action uses:

* find(:all)
* all

    describe "things" do
      context "successful GET"
        it "assigns things" do
          stubbing(Thing) do |thing|
            get :index
            assigns[:things].should == [thing]
          end
        end
      end
    end

==== POST requests

The following examples will both pass if the controller's index action uses:

* new
* create
* create!
* valid?
* save
* save!

    describe "things" do
      context "successful POST"
        it "creates a new thing" do
          stubbing(Thing) do |thing|
            post :create
            assigns[:things].should == [thing]
          end
        end
      end
    end

==== PUT requests
The following examples will both pass if the controller's update action uses find with any of:

* update_attribute + (save || save!)
* update_attributes
* update_attributes!

      describe "things" do
        context "successful PUT"
          it "redirects to the things index" do
            stubbing(Thing) do
              put :update
              response.should redirect_to(things_path)
            end
          end
        end

        context "failed PUT"
          it "re-renders the edit page" do
            stubbing(Thing, :as => :invalid) do
              put :update
              response.should render_template('edit')
            end
          end
        end
      end

== REQUIREMENTS:

* activerecord
* rspec

== INSTALL:

    $ git clone git://github.com/dchelimsky/stubble.git
    $ cd stubble
    $ rake gem
    $ rake install_gem
    
== CONFIGURE

in spec_helper.rb

    require 'stubble'
    Stubble.configure {|stubble| stubble.stub_with :rspec} # or mocha, rr, flexmock
    Spec::Runner.configure {|c| c.include(Stubble, :type => :controller)}
    
in test_helper.rb # if you're using test/unit or any of its extensions
    
  require 'stubble'
  Stubble.configure {|stubble| stubble.stub_with :mocha} # or rr, flexmock
  class ActionController::TestCase
    include Stubble
  end

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008-2009 David Chelimsky

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.